Project 1 (SCORE 1)

Massimo Vignelli's Subway Map

When Massimo Vignelli, one of the greatest graphic designers of the 20th century, was close to death in mid-May, his son Luca informed the whole design community—at Vignelli’s request—so we could say goodbye with our thoughts and with a letter. The world will have to move on without him. Still, the world—and especially New York—would not be what it is without Vignelli’s elegantly rigorous touch. Imagine the NYC subway left to meander down a designless track, loosely organized around a crowded and illegible map, or, even worse, marred by a haughty, serifed typeface instead of a clean, democratic Helvetica. Imagine a New York without the iconic “Bloomie’s” logo and its intersecting o’s, or its equally well-known “big brown bags” (that would be Bloomingdale’s, for you out-of-towners). Washington D.C. would be affected as well—no Metro to speak of, as Vignelli is the one that suggested the name. The effect would spread to the whole country: a crucial decade, 1964 to 1974, would be left without distinctive stackable melamine dinnerware in bright colors; and some American corporate staples—from American Airlines before the recent makeover, to Knoll—would not look as stylish, incisive, and as, well, American.



Project 2 (SCORE 2)

Marian Bantjes

Marian’s art and design crosses boundaries of time, style and technology. She is known for her detailed and lovingly precise vector art, her obsessive hand work, her patterning and ornament. Marian’s work has an underlying structure and formality that frames its organic, fluid nature. It is these combinations and juxtapositions that draw the interest of such a wide variety of designers and typographers, from experienced formalists to young students.



Project 3 (SCORE 3)

Moniker Studio

Moniker, the Amsterdam-based studio of Luna Maurer and Roel Wouters, is surely one of the key protagonists in the field of participatory design. The studio, which was originally co-founded with Jonathan Puckey in 2012, aims to find playful ways of integrating the user into the design process, focusing on interactive experimentation as design method and thus putting the process and the context thereof, rather than the medium-specific end result centre stage. 


